finalised dp pipelines with working example (#3)
RedHatQuickCourses/rhods-pipelines: modules/chapter1/pages/section2.adoc

Reviewer: As discussed earlier, we'll cover Elyra in section 2 and KFP SDK in section 3. Can you please rename this to section 3 accordingly?

Author: I'd rather hold off until we're all in sync rather than impacting others work. This can be a final pr on the entire chapter. Just in case

[NOTE]
====
DS Pipelines in OpenShift AI are managed by the `data-science-pipelines-operator-controller-manager` operator in the `redhat-ods-applications` namespace. The CR is an instance of _datasciencepipelinesapplications.datasciencepipelinesapplications.opendatahub.io_. Pipeline _runs_ are instances of _tekton.dev/v1 PipelineRun_.
====

== Creating a Data Science Pipeline with the KFP SDK

=== Prerequisites 
* Python Setup
[source,cmd]
----
pip install kfp==1.8.22

> pip install kfp-tekton==1.8.0

Reviewer: The [documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_data_science_self-managed/1.33/html/working_on_data_science_projects/working-with-data-science-pipelines_ds-pipelines#defining-a-pipeline_ds-pipelines) states that `kfp-tekton` must be 1.5.x.
I found that the versions 1.5.x to 1.8.x are working.

----
IMPORTANT: Using the correct Python module versions is critical to avoid conflicts between the KFP SDK and Data Science Pipelines versions.

> * S3 Storage

Reviewer: This is covered in the Elyra part.

> You can use any _S3_ compatible storage service such as _Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation_ or _AWS S3_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any S3 compatible storage service such as _Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation_ or _AWS S3_.
```

For the purpose of this enablement we will be using _Minio_.

> Follow https://ai-on-openshift.io/tools-and-applications/minio/minio/[These] instructions to setup a local Minio instance on your OpenShift cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow https://ai-on-openshift.io/tools-and-applications/minio/minio/[these instructions] to setup a local Minio instance on your OpenShift cluster.
```

> === Creating a Pipeline Server

Reviewer: This is covered in the Elyra part.

image::openshift-ai-dsp-edge.png[]
****

> The entire pipeline is here xref:attachment$sample-pipeline-full.py[Sample Pipeline]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entire pipeline is xref:attachment$sample-pipeline-full.py[here].
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
We have only covered a subset of the functionality avaiable in DSP as it pertains to our real-life scenario. Please see the https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton/blob/master/sdk/FEATURES.md[kfp-tekton features] document for more advanced functionality. The https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton/blob/master/guides/advanced_user_guide.md[KFP Tekton Advanced User Guide] also has more information.
====

=== Pipeline Execution

==== Submitting a Pipeline and Triggering a run

The following code demonstrates how to submit and trigger a pipeline run from a _OpenShift AI WorkBench_.

[source, python]
if __name__ == '__main__':  

>     kubeflow_endpoint = 'http://ds-pipeline-pipelines-definition:8888'

Reviewer: This is the scheme that I have been using in the past, but it requires a custom network policy. It's probably better to use your scheme instead, i.e. requesting the oauth-proxy of the pipeline server.

include::example$dsp_trigger.py[lines=34..51]

The full code is xref:attachment$dsp_trigger.py[here].

[NOTE]
====
The _pipeline_ needs to have already been submitted to the DSP runtime.
====

== Data Handling in Data Science Pipelines
DSP have two sizes of data, conviently named *_Small Data_* and *_Big Data_*.

. _Small Data_ is considered anything that can be passed as a _command line argument_ for example _Strings_, _URLS_, _Numbers_. The overall size should not exceed a few _kilobytes_.

> . Unsurprisingly everything else is considered _Big Data_ and should be passed as files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Unsurprisingly, everything else is considered _Big Data_ and should be passed as files.
```

=== Handling large data sets

DSP support two methods by which to pass large data sets aka _Big Data_ between pipeline steps:

. *_Tekton Workspaces_*.
. *_Volume based data passing method_*.

[NOTE]
====

> The Data Science Projects *_Data Connection_* storage is used to store _Output Artifacts_ and _Parameters_ of a pipeline. It is not used to pass large amounts of data between pipeline steps

Reviewer: This is somewhat unclear. Do you mean an S3 bucket, which is referenced through a data connection? Which one? Which output artifacts do you mean? The ones that are published explicitly in the task, or the ones defined through the SDK? By parameters, do you mean static pipeline parameters or dynamic task parameters? Why is it noteworthy that it's not used to pass big data?

Author: Fixed in doc

====

=== Tekton Workspaces

> This uses the out of the box approach in Tekton to store and pass data between stages of a _Tekton Pipeline_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This uses the native Tekton mechanism for storing and passing data between stages of a _Tekton Pipeline_.
```

> Tekton will create a *Workspace* to share large data files among tasks that run in the same pipeline. These _Workspaces_ will be backed by dynamically created storage volumes which will be removed once the pipeline has completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tekton creates a *Workspace* to share large data files among tasks that run in the same pipeline. These _Workspaces_ are backed by dynamically created storage volumes which are removed once the pipeline has completed.
```

By default the storage is set to *_ReadWriteMany_*, the size is set to *_2Gi_* and uses the storage class called *_kfp-csi-s3_*. 

> However this can be changed to suit the target environment needs by settting the following *_Environment Variables_*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this can be changed to suit the target environment needs by setting the following *_Environment Variables_*:
```

. _DEFAULT_ACCESSMODES_
. _DEFAULT_STORAGE_SIZE_
. _DEFAULT_STORAGE_CLASS_

> And example of this in the _Sample Pipeline_ is shown below  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of this in the _Sample Pipeline_ is shown below:  
```

[source,python]

> include::example$sample-pipeline-full.py[lines=502..505]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include::example$sample-pipeline-full.py[lines=503..505]
```
Line 502 is not relevant here.

> === Volume based data passing method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Volume-based data passing method
```

> This approach uses a pre-created OpenShift storage volume ,aka _(PVC)_, to pass data between the pipeline steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach uses a pre-created OpenShift storage volume (aka _PVC_) to pass data between the pipeline steps.
```

An example of this is in the https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton/blob/master/sdk/python/tests/compiler/testdata/artifact_passing_using_volume.py[KFP compiler tests] which we will discuss here.

First create the volume to be used and assign it to a variable:
[source,python]
include::example$artifact_passing_using_volume.py[lines=78..79]

[source,python]
include::example$artifact_passing_using_volume.py[lines=81..88]

Then add definition to the _pipeline configuration_:
[source,python]
include::example$artifact_passing_using_volume.py[lines=91..93]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The *_data-volume PVC claim_* needs to exist on the OpenShift cluster before running the pipeline, if not then the _pipeline execution pod_ will fail to deploy and the run will terminate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *_data-volume PVC claim_* needs to exist in the OpenShift namespace while running the pipeline, else the _pipeline execution pod_ fails to deploy and the run terminates.
```

====

> To pass big data using cloud provider volumes, it's recommended to use the *_volume_based_data_passing_method_*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To pass big data using cloud provider volumes, it's recommended to use the *_volume-based data passing method_*.
```

> == Data Science Pipeline - Hands On Example

Reviewer: How about we move this up and replace the coin flip example by this one? The coin flip example seems redundant if we discuss this pipeline in this chapter.

Author: I'd rather keep this here so students can try this one from a notebook where as the other one is done via the UI

> We're now going to deploy and run an example DSP pipeline. The use case is offline scoring for _Fraud Detection_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're now going to deploy and run a sample pipeline. The use case is identifying fraudulent transactions among a large number of credit card transactions using an offline scoring approach.
```

> === Setup

Reviewer: This part is covered in the Elyra section.

[%interactive]
* [ ] Using the Minio UI, create a new S3 Bucket named _fraud_detection_bucket_.

image::create-s3-fraud-bucket.png[]

[%interactive]
* [ ] Download the following artifacts:

** [ ] xref:attachment$offline_scoring_kfp_pipeline.py[ONNX Model]
** [ ] xref:attachment$live-data.csv.gz[Live Transaction Data]

> ** [ ] xref:attachment$training-data.csv.gz[Model Training Data]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
It's not needed here.

Author: removed

[%interactive]

> * [ ] Uncompress the *_.gz_* files using the _gzip -d _ command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ ] Uncompress the *_.gz_* files using the `+gzip -d+` command. 
```
At least that's how I understand adoc.

* [ ] Upload the files to S3 _fraud_detection_bucket_ via the _Minio_ UI.

====
image::fraud-upload-files.png[]
====
====
image::fraud-files-uploaded.png[]
====

[%interactive]
* [ ] Create the *_aws-connection-fraud-detection_* _secret_ containing the _S3_ bucket name, endpoint and credentials.

[source,bash]
--
oc create secret generic aws-connection-fraud-detection --from-literal=AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=minio --from-literal=AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=rhods-enablement-emea --from-literal=AWS_S3_BUCKET=fraud-detection-bucket --from-literal=AWS_S3_ENDPOINT=https://minio-api... --from-literal=AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=minio123
--

[%interactive]
* [ ] Create two OpenShift Persistent Volumes with the following names:
** *offline-scoring-model-volume*
** *offline-scoring-data-volume*

TIP: Example PVC definitions are here, download and customise as necessary this xref:attachment$offline-scoring-data-pvc.yaml[Data Volume definition] & xref:attachment$offline-scoring-model-pvc.yaml[Model Volume definition]

=== Execute Pipeline

> Download and customise as necessary this xref:attachment$offline_scoring_kfp_pipeline.py[Example Volume definition]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
It seems like this is not needed.

[%interactive]
* [ ] Create a _Workbench_ with the name _fraud-onnx_

image::fraud-onnx-workbench.png[]

[%interactive]

> * [ ] Download the xref:attachment$offline_scoring_kfp_pipeline.py[Offline Scoring Pipeline] and load it into your _workbench_.

Reviewer: I recommend using the course's git repository and asking the student to just check it out and access the code.

Reviewer: The screenshot shows the code inside of a Jupyter notebook. The code is written to be executed through the CLI (see `+if __name__=='__main__'+` clause). Of course, it can be executed within a notebook, but then let's provide it in the notebook format.

Author: I'd rather keep the code in a single repo rather than splitting it across two repos

* [ ] Click 'Restart Kernel and Run All Cells'.

image::start-pipeline.png[]

The Pipeline will be submitted to the server and a run _Triggered_.

image::pipeline-run-triggered.png[]

> If the pipeline run was executed without issue you should see something similar to below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the pipeline run was executed without any issues, you should see something similar to below:
```

image::pipeline-finish.png[]

=== Handling Pipeline Errors

> In the case that the pipeline failed the UI will be show something similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the pipeline fails, the UI shows something similar to the following:
```

image::pipeline-failure.png[]

> Clicking on the *_failed_* node in the Graph and then clicking on the _Details_ tab will present the status of the execution step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the *_failed_* node in the graph and then clicking on the _Details_ tab presents the status of the execution step. 
```

> When the mouse is placed over the *_Status_* field the command to retrieve the detailed logs of the execution step is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the mouse is placed over the *_Status_* field, the command to retrieve the detailed logs of the execution step is displayed.
```

image::pipeline-error-details.png[]

> The step logs can then be viewed using the command provided.

Reviewer: Optional comment could be to point the student to the Tekton pipeline run console to view the task logs.
